[Music]
all right get ready for some hot stuff
really what would happen if the
temperature reached 255 nonillion
degrees well that's a big number huh for
my sages two major earthquakes doesn't
it sometimes seem like our planet can
handle just about anything but what
about extremely high temperatures what
if the temperature rose to 255 nonillion
degrees Fahrenheit
what would happen to us and our
beautiful mother earth can you say
crispy critters well here are all the
answers you need to know but before we
bring the heat don't forget to click
that subscribe button before it melts
and turn on post notifications that way
you won't miss a thing
so 255 nonillion degrees Fahrenheit huh
now is that even real by the way in case
you're wondering how to write that one
nonillion would be a 1 with 30 zeros
after it
so 255 nonillion would be yep hotter
than that now if we're talking about the
United States the highest temperature
ever recorded there was 135 degrees
fahrenheit in Death Valley but the
highest surface temperature ever
measured anywhere in our planet was
found inside a rock it was a toasty 160
degrees Fahrenheit and if we go explore
the hottest planet in our solar system
we won't be heading for mercury the
closest planet to our Sun nope it's
Venus with an average surface
temperature of 864 degrees Fahrenheit as
for the hottest hottie of our solar
system then of course would be our Sun
which burns at a temperature of nine
thousand nine hundred thirty-two degrees
Fahrenheit whoo
I'm sauteing just thinking about it
scientists have always been interested
in experimenting with temperature levels
in 2012 physicists at CERN's Large
Hadron Collider in Geneva Switzerland
made it into the Guinness World Records
achieving the highest man-made
temperature ever they smashed again
their lead ions at 99% of the speed of
light and created a quark-gluon plasma
no this isn't something from the
Ghostbusters movies it's a state of
matter that's believed to have filled
the universe right after the Big Bang as
a result of this man-made collision the
temperature rose to nine point nine
trillion degrees Fahrenheit which is
250,000 times hotter than the center of
the Sun and whoever said science isn't
fascinating well as for 255 nonillion
degrees fahrenheit also known as planck
temperature it's the hottest temperature
that could ever be possible in the whole
universe according to the standard model
of particle physics for this temperature
to actually come into existence our
universe has to reach thermal
equilibrium this is when two objects in
thermal contact do not affect each
other's temperature whoa slow down how
about a simple example well when you put
a gallon of milk on your kitchen counter
these two objects are in thermal contact
they're touching basically and after
some time their temperatures become the
same
that's thermal equilibrium for you so in
a nutshell for this to happen on earth
all the objects on our planet have to
reach a temperature of 255 nonillion
degrees Fahrenheit
okay let's imagine that it somehow comes
to be on earth what would happen next
well scientists aren't completely sure
but hey they'd be toast anyways so with
the rest of us actually researchers do
have some ideas well there's still no
exact scientific theory for how matter
might behave at such a high energy level
they do know that going beyond the
Planck temperature could be enough to
turn the thing you're heating up in our
scenario or mother earth into a black
hole but this black hole would have mass
energy in the form of radiant energy not
matter it wouldn't be physical so this
black hole could dissipate and radiate
away instantly destroy the earth or do
something pretty much beyond our
imagined
nation as for our fate well that's
pretty clear we'd all go poof now
according to scientists the closest we
ever came to this unbelievable
temperature is unsurprisingly
just after the Big Bang in the earliest
moments of our universe space-time was
expanding so fast that particles
couldn't interact with each other which
means that there was no heat exchange
and therefore no temperature but that
lasted for just a teeny tiny itsy-bitsy
fraction of a fraction of a second but
as space-time began to vibrate the
temperature rose dramatically and that's
the big bang for you in less than 60
words hey we're discovering the basics
here so moving on
thankfully our cozy little third Rock
from the Sun is nowhere near this
terrifying high temperature but we
definitely do have some unbelievably hot
spots that deserve a shoutout for
example in 1922 in the small town of
al-azizia Libya the world experienced
the hottest air temperature ever 136
degrees Fahrenheit yup it beats the
death valley record by one degree yet
the World Meteorological Organization
still gave it to the US since the usual
record keeper in al-azizia wasn't there
that day and the reading was taken by an
unexperienced observer yet this is just
child's play for the lute Desert in Iran
measurements from a NASA satellite taken
between 2003 and 2010 testified that the
land temperature in this place can reach
a scorching 158 degrees Fahrenheit
setting the bar a bit lower there's also
the town of Dalal Ethiopia which has the
world's highest average temperature for
an inhabited place calculated at 94
degrees Fahrenheit and you thought
summer in your town was unbearable
alright we've talked about the hottest
of the hot but what about the coldest
temperature possible it's aptly called
absolute zero or minus 460 degrees
Fahrenheit it's at this point
that Adams move as slow as they possibly
can bringing the temperature of an
object down to the lowest it can
possibly be but unlike the plank
temperature absolute zero is literally
impossible to reach and that's because
it takes more and more work to remove
heat from gas the colder you get in
short you'd need an infinite amount of
work to reach Absolute Zero still
scientists are just as hard at work
experimenting with super cold
temperatures as they are with the really
hot months just like the hottest
temperature ever created in a lab so was
the lowest temperature it was in 2003
when scientists at MIT announced that
they'd chilled a cloud of sodium atoms
to an astonishing 0.45 nano Kelvin Wow
just so you know that's like a hair
above absolute zero which is zero Kelvin
in the world of physics yet the record
is still held by scientists at the
Helsinki University of Technology where
they reached an even more dramatic
temperature of 0.1 nano Kelvin in a
piece of rhodium metal back in 1999 and
so they partied like it was well you
know our solar system has also some cold
characters floating about there's a sort
of rivalry going on between the farthest
two planets from our Sun the eighth
planet Neptune does have a lower average
temperature at minus 350 degrees
Fahrenheit then the seventh planet does
from the Sun Uranus with an average of a
mere minus 325
but the chilliest planet award still
goes to Uranus where the coldest
temperature ever recorded on a planet
was measured a very icy minus 371 now
you think Neptune would reach lower
temperatures more often since it's
further from the Sun but that's not the
case
scientists aren't sure why Uranus is the
coldest planet but one of the most
popular opinions is that it could be due
to the structural components of Uranus
itself and their effect on how the
planet retains solar heat another
popular theory is that Uranus is unique
Orbitz is to blame plus it's got a tilt
like no other planet this tilt makes
yearn is spilled loads of heat out into
space dropping the temperature to record
lows but let's go back to our beloved
earth shall we naturally the award for
the coldest recorded air temperature on
the planet goes to the Russian research
station Vostok in Antarctica with a
result of - 192 degrees Fahrenheit and
that's not the only record for Russia in
1933 the Republic of Yakutia which was
part of the USSR at that time
experienced the coldest air temperature
ever recorded in the northern hemisphere
a mind-numbing - 88 degrees Fahrenheit
well I certainly won't be packing my
bags and moving there anytime soon the
lowest temperature ever recorded in the
US was minus 80 degrees fahrenheit in
Alaska that's nothing compared to Vash
stocks - 192 but don't forget it's still
colder than the surface temperature on
Mars which by the way is minus 67
degrees Fahrenheit Denali
the highest peak in North America that
also happens to be located in Alaska is
considered the coldest mountain on Earth
with the coldest recorded temperature of
minus 99 degrees the list of other cold
places on earth continues with a Eureka
research base on Canada's far northern
Ellesmere Island it's one of the coldest
inhabited places with an average yearly
air temperature of around minus 4
degrees and dropping to minus 40 degrees
in winter that's chilly and there you
have it
from the scorching hot to the freezing
cold our planet is truly fascinating
don't you think it is a pretty durable
place but that doesn't mean we shouldn't
take care of our dear mother earth
I mean she's done so much for us don't
you think it's time we return the favor
so do you have any other what-if
questions about our world tell us in the
comments below and perhaps we'll make a
video on it don't forget to give us a
like and hit that subscribe bye
to stay on the bright side of life